#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation,Phase-Requirements
= What is intellij-maven and how to use it?=

At this moment you can only download and install a ready-build version of IntelliJ Community Idea and its source code. You can build IntelliJ Idea from its sources, but the build is based on ant/gant/groovy and only works from IntelliJ Idea.

It can be very annoying, if you want to write a new plugin for IntelliJ and want to use maven to setup and manage all of dependencies and build life cycle., because you normlly don't have access to any maven-ready artifacs of IntelliJ.

"intellij-maven" is a maven project which can be used to create all of IntelliJ IDEA (Community version) build artifacts with maven and to install them into local maven repository.

Just use intellij-maven to build all of IntelliJ artifacs and use these artifacs as maven dependencies of you project/plugin! Created build artifacts contains also source code files, so you can quickly and comfortably navigate from usages of IntelliJ classes to they source code. 

"intellij-maven" currently supports last builds of: 
 # IntelliJ 9(9.0.4) - Build 95.627
 # IntelliJ 10(10.5.4) - Build 107.777
 # IntelliJ 11(11.1.2) - Build 117.418
 # IntelliJ 12-SNAPSHOT (12.0 EAP) - Build 118.479

= How to start? =

 # Just Download and install IntelliJ IC distribution and source code:   
  * IntelliJ 9.0.4 IC [http://download.jetbrains.com/idea/ideaIC-9.0.4.exe (exe)] / [http://download.jetbrains.com/idea/ideaIC-9.0.4.tar.gz (tar.gz)] and  [http://download.jetbrains.com/idea/ideaIC-9.0.4-src.tar.bz2 Sources] 
  * IntelliJ 10.5.4 IC [http://download.jetbrains.com/idea/ideaIC-10.5.4.exe (exe)] / [http://download.jetbrains.com/idea/ideaIC-10.5.4.tar.gz (tar.gz)]  and  [http://download.jetbrains.com/idea/ideaIC-10.5.4-src.tar.bz2 Sources]
  * IntelliJ 11.1.2 IC [http://download.jetbrains.com/idea/ideaIC-11.1.2.exe (exe)] / [http://download.jetbrains.com/idea/ideaIC-11.1.2.tar.gz (tar.gz)] and  [http://download.jetbrains.com/idea/ideaIC-11.1.2-src.tar.bz2 Sources]
  * IntelliJ 12.0 EAP IC [http://download.jetbrains.com/idea/ideaIC-118.749.exe (exe)] / [http://download.jetbrains.com/idea/ideaIC-118.749.tar.gz (tar.gz)] and  [http://download.jetbrains.com/idea/ideaIC-118.749-src.tar.bz2 Sources]
 # svn checkout intellij-maven project from http://code.google.com/p/intellij-maven
{{{
$ svn checkout http://intellij-maven.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/intellij-maven
}}}
 # Install IntelliJ IDEA on windows or just unpack downloaded tar.gz bundles on *nix.  
 IntelliJ distribution: 
 {{{
  $ tar -zxf ideaIC-9.0.4.tar.gz
  $ tar -zxf ideaIC-10.5.4.tar.gz
  $ tar -zxf ideaIC-11.1.2.tar.gz
  $ tar -zxf ideaIC-118.749.tar.gz
  }}}
 IntelliJ  Sources:
 {{{
  $ tar -zxf ideaIC-9.0.4-src.tar.bz2
  $ tar -zxf ideaIC-10.5.4-src.tar.bz2
  $ tar -zxf ideaIC-11.1.2-src.tar.bz2
  $ tar -zxf ideaIC-118.749-src.tar.bz2
  }}}
 # Unpack sources of IntelliJ bundle and use the path of the source directory in the next step
 # Create new profile in pom.xml in intellij-maven directory for youself like existing one:
   <code language="xml">
   {{{
   <profile>
      <id>mpl</id>
      <activation>
        <property>
          <name>env.COMPUTERNAME</name>
          <value>MOSKAU</value>
        </property>
      </activation>
      <properties>
        <idea9.home>E:/Projekte/Idea/ideaIC-95.627</idea9.home>
        <idea10.home>E:/Projekte/Idea/ideaIC-107.777</idea10.home>
        <idea11.home>E:/Projekte/Idea/ideaIC-117.418</idea11.home>
        <idea12.home>E:/Projekte/Idea/ideaIC-118.749</idea12.home>
      </properties>
    </profile>
   }}}
   </code>    
   Use your own directories for idea9, idea10, idea11 and/or idea12 source places!
 # run "mvn clean" and "mvn install" in intellij-maven directory. Check for successful build.
{{{
$ mvn -Pyour_profile clean install
}}}
 # run "mvn clean" and "mvn install -DIntelliJ=9" in intellij-maven directory. Check for successful build.
 # run "mvn clean" and "mvn install -DIntelliJ=10" in intellij-maven directory. Check for successful build.
 # run "mvn clean" and "mvn install -DIntelliJ=12" in intellij-maven directory. Check for successful build.
 # Now you should be able to use intellij-artifacs as maven dependencies like this:
<code language="xml">
   {{{
     <dependency>
      <groupId>org.jetbrains.idea</groupId>
      <artifactId>idea-openapi</artifactId>
      <version>${idea.version}</version>
      <type>pom</type>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.jetbrains.idea</groupId>
      <artifactId>util</artifactId>
      <version>${idea.version}</version>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.jetbrains.idea</groupId>
      <artifactId>idea</artifactId>
      <type>pom</type>
      <version>${idea.version}</version>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.jetbrains.idea</groupId>
      <artifactId>annotations</artifactId>
      <version>${idea.version}</version>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.jetbrains.idea</groupId>
      <artifactId>extensions</artifactId>
      <version>${idea.version}</version>
    </dependency>
   }}}
   </code> 